Keywords: Flood, natural disaster, climate crisis, population concentration, artificial intelligence, risk management, loss of life, material loss, machine learning


The frequency and severity of disasters have increased considerably due to global climate change. One of these disasters is flooding, which is caused by heavy downpours, snowmelt, rising or overflowing rivers. Floods are a very serious problem caused by global warming and climate crisis both in Turkey and around the world. Flooding is a natural phenomenon that cannot be prevented. Whether the cause is human or natural, it cannot be stopped, but its destructive effect can be reduced. The classical methods previously used to reduce its destructive effect are insufficient today due to increasing population growth and developing technology. For this reason, it is essential to create an innovative warning system to take precautions against the material and moral damages of natural disasters such as floods, especially in living spaces. Based on this necessity, this study aims to emphasize the importance of artificial intelligence, which is one of the most popular fields of study in the current technological age, and how artificial intelligence can be used to minimize possible loss of life or material losses in risk management in disasters by drawing attention to the pre-disaster period by investigating the usage areas of artificial intelligence. For this purpose, a literature review was conducted on both floods and artificial intelligence and the use of artificial intelligence for flood risk prediction, and various solution methods were identified as a result of this literature review. After the literature review, a data set was created in the light of the data obtained from the 3rd Regional Directorate of State Hydraulic Works and Sakarya Provincial Directorate of Meteorology. This dataset consists of 20 features. In addition to these attributes, the data is divided into 3 classes. These classes are no flood, flood risk and flood alarm. An artificial intelligence model was created using this dataset. Gaussian Naïve Bayes, Bernoulli Naïve Bayes and Support Vector Machines (SVM) models were used in the study and the highest accuracy rate was obtained from the SVM model.
